# Random Sampling Based Approximate MapReduce
This project comes from one of my research. It can be easily installed and used in ordinary MapReduce tasks under up-to-date MapReduce framework with little effect to original flow. Users can define sampling ratio or error bounds with confidence level, and left the calculation to our module. We offer optional input sampling status (total queries, sampled queries) that kept through Apache ZooKeeper, which allows us to save states from RecordReader at input stage, and taken for later use like comparison or other analysis purpose.

We propose and evaluate a general solution that provides efficient approximation for most common MapReduce tasks based on input level random sampling. Our mechanism allows users to get a fast and low error rate approximation result with given sample ratio or error bounds under specific confidence level. We give our theoretical analysis of the solution after the introduction, showing both statistical theorems to calculate sampling rate and error bounds on our random sampling for input data. We then show how we design and implement the approximation algorithm that work as a compact addon to original MapReduce framework. Experiments shown in later section evaluate our solution under several typical application scenarios with GB level test dataset. Our results show that our approach can achieve high efficiency with low error bounds on large-scale even-distributed dataset and related domains, which can reduce up to 97.5% calculation time with less than 1% error bounds at 95% confidence level, and under 1% actual data difference as well. We thus conclude that our solution can provide a feasible, practical and easy-to-use add-on approximation service for most MapReduce users.
